9.30-13.00 : Workshop on molecular visualisation (with a break for coffee)

VMD looking at oseltamivir bound to H7N9 and H7N9-R292K neuraminidase
Aim is to learn how to use VMD while exploring the change in binding mode
of oseltamivir caused by the R292K point mutation

  How to load a protein
  How to rotate and zoom the camera
  How to select only water
  How to select only the ligand
  How to change representations
  How to change colours
  How to render a picture

  How to load a trajectory
  How to play a movie
  How to pick atoms
  How to measure distances, angles dihedrals
  How to draw a graph
  How to compare MD trajectories
  How to align structures
  How to draw comparison graphs

  Pulling it all together

14.00-15.30 : Workshop on molecular dynamics

  Aim is to learn how to run an MD simulation by starting with 
  zanamivir bound to H7N9 neuraminidase. Will run a short simulation
  and will load that up into VMD to compare against oseltamivir.
  Will learn about water, periodic boundaries, thermostat, barostat,
  constraints (shake), timestep.

  How to run a simple MD simulation. Zanamivir in the gas phase.
  Understanding the config file. How to run a simulation from the 
  command line. Simulation, 1 fs timestep, no shake. Learn how to
  view the result in vmd (vmd zan.prmtop output.dcd - need to align
  the trajectory using RMSD trajectory tool). 

  Timestep - how to avoid simulation blowing up. Understand the concept
  of total simulation time being numsteps * timestep. Can increase time
  simulated by increasing the timestep. Get them to increase the timestep
  from 1, to 2, to 3, to 4. Simulation will break around 3-4 fs. 
  Introduce why it breaks - motion of the hydrogen atoms. Get them to
  measure the fluctuation of the H bond length with timestep.

  Constraints - holding bonds to increase timestep. Adding in shake on 
  the X-H bonds. Add in the lines to the config file. Rerun for different
  time steps and see how the X-H bonds move. Try up to 6 fs. Should see that
  shake allows you to roughly double the timestep.

  Loading a larger system - loading zanamivir bound to H7N9 neuraminidase.
  First look at the PDB. See that it is solvated in a box of water. Introduce
  the concept of periodic boundary conditions.

  Now run a simulation at constant temperature. Must add in the options for 
  periodic boundary conditions. Ewald to model long-range electrostatics.

  Finally, difference between NVT and NPT. To run at constant pressure,
  need to add in a barostat. Lines to add in a barostat to the config
  file. Finally, run simulation of bound complex NPT.

16.00-17.30 : Workshop on molecular dynamics

  Aim is to learn how to set up an MD simulation by using the example
  of performing a point mutation of H7N9-zanamivir to H7N9-R292K-zanamivir.
  Will learn how to add the water box, then perform minimisation, then
  equilibration. Hopefully the simulation will run well enough that they
  will be able to see the change in binding mode caused by the mutation.
  If not, then they can look at the paper.
 
  How to setup a protein simulation (simple)
      How to add water and counter ions
      How to minimise
      How to equilibrate

  How to mutate residues in a protein

  Review of how this was used to look at neuraminidase mutants

Extra work : Link to other computational workshops
  Monte Carlo - eventually links to the binding affinity calculations
  QM/MM - how to convert the MM binding affinities to QM
